Detail DAC and TAG integration from the user perspective (#46069)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/admin-guides/teleport-policy/database-access-controls.mdx

Reviewer: Should we place this in `admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations`, which includes other guides for importing policies? We'd need to change the wording in `admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/integrations.mdx` to clarify that these guides don't just apply to third-party services, though.

Author: I wasn't sure where to put it, tbh. Another option is to expand the existing guide of TAG functionality with this content. @jakule your take?

Reviewer 2: @ptgott @Tener I vote for updating the integration page. We should explain that:

By default imported are:
* Teleport managed resources, roles/access lists and users
* Database objects
* SSK keys

Okta is imported as soon as the integration is enabled in Teleport.
AWS, Entra and GitLab requires additional setup to see the resources in TAG.

We plan to update docs later this week anyway. I'll add it.

---
title: Teleport Policy and Database Access Controls
description: Describes how to import and visualize advanced Teleport Database Access Controls policies using Teleport Policy and Access Graph.
---

> Advanced Database Access Controls features allow Teleport administrators to configure user permissions for individual database objects using flexible, label-based approach for expressing access policies.

Reviewer: Is the feature called Advanced Database Access Controls? If so, we should change this line to remove "features", since this is a single feature:

```markdown
Advanced Database Access Controls allow Teleport administrators to configure user permissions for individual database objects using flexible, label-based approach for expressing access policies.
```

> The database objects-level access information is automatically synchronized to Teleport Policy, making it possible to see who has particular levels of access to the different parts of the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Database object-level access information is automatically synchronized to Teleport Policy, making it possible to see who has particular levels of access to the different parts of a Teleport-protected database.
```

Since we haven't specified a database yet.

<Notice type="note">
Currently PostgreSQL is the only supported protocol for database-object level permissions. Support for additional protocols will be added in the future.
</Notice>

## How it works

Teleport continuously scans connected databases and imports objects, such as tables, based on predefined import rules. These rules determine which objects to import and what labels to assign to them. By default, all objects are imported, with labels automatically generated from object properties like schema and database name.

The labels assigned to these objects are matched against the `spec.allow.db_permissions` section of each user role. This results in a set of permissions that will be applied when the user connects to the database.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Teleport Policy calculates the effective permissions for each user in advance, and thanks to automatic synchronization, it provides real-time insights into database access for individual Teleport users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport Policy calculates the effective permissions for each user in advance, and through automatic synchronization, it provides real-time insights into database access for individual Teleport users.
```
"thanks to" sounds a bit like an advertisement to me.

## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v16.2.0 or later.
- Teleport Identity and Teleport Policy enabled for your account.
  - For self-hosted clusters, ensure that an up-to-date `license.pem` is used in the Auth Service configuration.
- For self-hosted clusters, a running Access Graph node v1.21.3 or later.
Check the [Teleport Policy page](./teleport-policy.mdx) for details on
how to set up Access Graph.
- The node running the Access Graph service must be reachable from the Teleport Auth Service.

To verify that Access Graph is set up correctly for your cluster, sign in to the Teleport Web UI and navigate to the Management tab.
If enabled, the Access Graph menu item will appear in the Permission Management section.

> ## Example Minimal Database Access Controls Configuration

Reviewer: What would you think of removing this H2 section and making following the Database Access Controls guide a prerequisite for this guide? This way, we don't need to introduce Database Access Controls itself, and can focus this guide on the Teleport Policy integration.

---

Advanced Database Access Controls features allow Teleport administrators to configure user permissions for individual database objects using flexible, label-based approach for expressing access policies.

The database objects-level access information is automatically synchronized to Teleport Policy, making it possible to see who has particular levels of access to the different parts of the database.

<Notice type="note">
Currently PostgreSQL is the only supported protocol for database-object level permissions. Support for additional protocols will be added in the future.
</Notice>

## How it works

Teleport continuously scans connected databases and imports objects, such as tables, based on predefined import rules. These rules determine which objects to import and what labels to assign to them. By default, all objects are imported, with labels automatically generated from object properties like schema and database name.

The labels assigned to these objects are matched against the `spec.allow.db_permissions` section of each user role. This results in a set of permissions that will be applied when the user connects to the database.

> For more details of this process see [Database Access Controls](../../enroll-resources/database-access/rbac.mdx).

Reviewer 3: nit. I would remove this line. This page already provides a good example of how to use TAG.  Readers can find references at the end of the page too. 
```suggestion
```

Teleport Policy calculates the effective permissions for each user in advance, and thanks to automatic synchronization, it provides real-time insights into database access for individual Teleport users.

## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v16.2.0 or later.
- Teleport Identity and Teleport Policy enabled for your account.
  - For self-hosted clusters, ensure that an up-to-date `license.pem` is used in the Auth Service configuration.

> - For self-hosted clusters, a running Access Graph node v1.21.3 or later.

Reviewer 2: I'd update it to 1.24.0 since the screenshots looks different in older releases.

Check the [Teleport Policy page](./teleport-policy.mdx) for details on
how to set up Access Graph.

> - The node running the Access Graph service must be reachable from the Teleport Auth Service.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this line as it's not related to guide itself but the setup itself. It's also missing that TAG must be also reachable from Proxy.

To verify that Access Graph is set up correctly for your cluster, sign in to the Teleport Web UI and navigate to the Management tab.

> If enabled, the Access Graph menu item will appear in the Permission Management section.

Reviewer 2: The same as above. IMO this is related to the initial setup, not the database access control.

## Example Minimal Database Access Controls Configuration

This section provides an example of a Teleport configuration that corresponds to the Teleport Policy usage examples detailed later. Before deploying an updated configuration in a production environment, please ensure you've reviewed the detailed documentation on the relevant topics.

> ### Creating a Teleport Role

Reviewer 2: Isn't this just a "regular setup" for Database access control in Teleport? I think we can just link the Teleport configuration instead of repeating it here.

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: db_auto_user
spec:
  allow:
    db_labels:
      '*': '*'
    db_names:
    - '*'
    db_permissions:
    - match:
        schema: public
      permissions:
      - SELECT
      - INSERT
      - UPDATE
  options:
    create_db_user: true
    create_db_user_mode: keep
version: v7
```

### Creating a New Teleport User

Create a user named `alice` and assign the `db_auto_user` role to her:

```bash
> tctl users add --roles=db_auto_user alice
```

### Verifying Resource Configuration

Ensure that the Postgres database resource is configured with an `admin_user` section. The admin user should be associated with a valid default database and must have privileges to create additional users. 

For example:

```yaml
  - name: pg-docker
    protocol: postgres
    uri: localhost:5432
    admin_user:
      name: postgres
      default_database: teleport
    static_labels:
      env: dev
```

### Further Reading

For more information, refer to:

- [Database Access Controls](../../enroll-resources/database-access/rbac.mdx), which covers additional topics such as custom import rules and the permission evaluation algorithm.

> - [Enrolling Self-Hosted Postgres](../../enroll-resources/database-access/enroll-self-hosted-databases/postgres-self-hosted.mdx) database.

Reviewer 3: I think we usually leave these at the bottom so readers will stay on the page before clicking away at the end.

## Analyzing Database Access Controls in Teleport Access Graph

When you inspect a particular user's access, the Teleport Access Graph will automatically display the database objects that the user can access.

> ![Overview of access including individual database objects](../../../img/access-graph/dac/overview.png)

Reviewer 3: love the screenshots!!
